True to Bible prophecy, Jehovah's people today are active across the entire inhabited
earth.
No matter where they live, they regularly gather as congregations to worship.
So providing suitable places for worship is very important to Jehovah.
The organization has continually refined the arrangement for financing and building
kingdom halls through the years.
In 2014, for example, under the direction of the publishing committee of the governing
body, the local design construction or LDC arrangement was put in place.
The LDC now cares for kingdom halls, assembly halls, and other field-related facilities
under each branch.
The service department and LDC work closely together to make sure that existing kingdom
halls, especially in heavily populated areas, are well used.
This is sometimes prevented having to start new construction.
It also makes the best use of your donations.
And it has resulted in blessings to some isolated congregations.
About 24 miles off the northwest coast of Scotland is the Isle of Lewis and Harris.
The largest town on the island, Stornaway, is home to one of the most remote congregations
in the United Kingdom.
We want to share with you their story.
Notice please, how Jehovah's refinements to the arrangements for providing kingdom halls
have allowed him to express his love for these dear brothers and sisters.
When I was young, I didn't really appreciate what the island was like, but as I've grown
older, it's just amazed by the beauty of creation.
The terrain is absolutely beautiful.
The air is clear, the beach is a world class, and of course there's mountains.
The Isle of Lewis and Harris, it's very rural, you've got the small town, Stornaway,
and then as you go out, it's all rural, and there's houses flooded everywhere, and there's
about 20,000 population on the island.
The people on the island of Lewis and Harris, they're very friendly people, they're very
welcoming.
People have time, they're not so rushed as they were back on, it's more laid back here.
We do full days in the ministry and work around some of the outlying villages with their
harbours.
The people on the island are very religious, they're also really friendly, so when you do go
on the ministry, you can have a great conversation with ones.
Well, we absolutely need enducing them all.
At the moment it's in upstairs room.
It's small, it's not easily accessed.
The stairs lead right into the horse, and there's no foyer, older ones as they get
known in years now, are finally difficult to get up there.
It's served its purpose for 50 years, and it's tired.
But then we can see on the broadcast what's going on right around the globe, and it makes
you feel, yeah, we can wait a bit longer while we're sitting in our old home.
I think we were aware and appreciative that there were other congregations where the
difficulties were even greater than ours, who were going to need the help long before
we had it.
We were happy just to continue worshiping Jehovah until such time as he was able to help
us.
No, very well that Jehovah will provide for us what we really, really need.
The branch committee loves our brothers and sisters in Stornoway.
It doesn't matter whether the congregation is small or whether it's a huge congregation.
We have great affection for every single one of our publishers there.
The need for a new kingdom hall on the island of Lucenhouse has been around for a long
time.
You know, the brothers have spent many, many years looking for a kingdom hall, but of
course there's challenges involved with that, not least of all the fact that there's
just a small group of publishers there.
When you're so isolated it can be a challenge to remain loyalty to Jehovah's organisation
because you see your immediate need and you feel that need needs to be met straight
away.
So being patient and working along with Jehovah's organisation, well that's a beautiful
quality to have and we admire the brothers for that.
We were on Stornoway Kingdom Hall project, we're working here to build a new kingdom
hall on the island.
We've been in need of it for a number of years now so it's really nice to be here and
be part of the project.
This is one of those projects that you can just see Jehovah's Hand in Matters.
Two contractors came yesterday to deliver some machinery and they were absolutely blown
away by the fact that it's volunteers.
It's a time when the other churches have got division and see problems.
But at this time Jehovah's obviously seen it's fitting that his people here benefit
from a new kingdom hall.
I think the nicest thing about this assignment is meeting new brothers and sisters from all
over the place and we've only been here six weeks and yet you feel like they're your
friends.
The brothers and sisters here in Stornoway have been so patiently waiting for the new
kingdom hall here.
They can contribute to the worldwide work but they haven't had to pay directly for the
new kingdom hall.
So it's lovely that small congregation can benefit from the love of Jehovah's organisation,
the love that the brothers and sisters show worldwide.
Well, I first walked into the kingdom hall and I was kind of breathtaking because I expected
something really good but it was even better than that.
I just can't believe how wonderful it is because there's finally a place that's worthy
of Jehovah's name.
It shows there are not an isolated group of brothers and sisters here.
Jehovah really loves the brothers here in Stornoway.
He's shown this by the response of the other brothers and sisters throughout the country
who have come here from far away to help.
I think that's a display of how Jehovah truly loves the brothers and sisters here in
Stornoway.
Passionately, I can honestly say with all my heart that I have never felt closer to Jehovah
than I do now.
We can't believe how good Jehovah has been to us.
Matthew chapter 18, verse 20 says, for where there are two or three gathered together in
my name, there I am in their midst, clearly no need is too small for Jehovah to notice.